So now let's talk about a way
for CloudFormation to know whether or not
your EC2 instance got properly configured
after running a cfn-init.
So for this, we'll use the cfn-signal script.
So the common convention is to run the cfn-signal script
right after the cfn-init script.
And it will tell CloudFormation if the resource creation
was a success or a failure.
For this, we also need to define what's called
a WaitCondition in CloudFormation.
And the WaitCondition is going to make the template wait
as the name indicates, until it receives a signal
from cfn-signal.
For this, we attach a creation policy,
and this also works on EC2 and ASG,
but right now will show you on WaitCondition,
and this is a creation policy
that has a resource signal including a timeout and a count.
If we define a count greater than one,
that means that we're expecting more than one resources
to signal their success to CloudFormation.
Otherwise you can keep it as one.
So the process is as such,
CloudFormation will launch an EC2 instance
and then it will have a WaitCondition.
The EC2 instance is going to run cfn-init on it.
Therefore we will retrieve the init data just like before,
but now on the init data right after,
we're going to do a signal from cfn-signal
to send data back to CloudFormation to the WaitCondition.
So let's have a look at the script
for us to better understand.
Okay, so here I am in my
CloudFormation signal template number two.
And we create an EC2 instance just like before
and we have user data.
And as you can see now the script is a little bit different.
So we still get the CloudFormation script for Bootstrap,
then we still run the cfn-init just like before.
But now we store the result
of the last command into this verbal named init_status.
So if cfn-init was successful,
then init status will be equal to zero.
And if cfn-init was not successful,
it would be an error code that would be different than zero
and init status would be equal to that error code.
And then we send the result back
to CloudFormation using cfn-signal.
So we're saying, hey, using the cfn-signal script,
send back the value of this variable init status
to my stack being my stack name.
And the resource is sample WaitCondition.
So let's confirm this.
So let's scroll down and have a look at the fact
that yes indeed we created a sample WaitCondition resource
in our templates.
So this is of type CloudFormation WaitCondition.
It's nothing physical,
it's just something that's going to wait
until the creation policy receives a signal.
So one signal and we have a timeout of two minutes
to receive that signal.
So if we don't receive anything within two minutes,
it's failed and otherwise we have two minutes to receive
either a success or a failure.
The rest is the same.
So we still have a security group
and we still have the very same CloudFormation init data.
So let's run this and see what happens.
So we're going to create a stack
and I'm going to upload a template file
choose it to cfn-signal.yaml.
Next, and I'll call this one demo cfn-signal.
Next, next, and then submit.
And now the create is in progress.
So now we can see that the SSH security group was created,
the instance in create is in progress.
And then we have a sample WaitCondition
that's also in create in progress.
Now if a refresh, even though the instance
is in create complete, as you can see,
the sample WaitCondition,
it's still in create in progress.
So before this would've been done
and this would've been a success,
but now we're actually waiting
to get a signal back from the EC2 instance
to know whether or not we have succeeded or failed.
So it's going to take a little bit more time
and as you can see now only my WaitCondition
is in create in progress state.
So for this, we need to wait
for the EC2 instance to actually finish its bootstrap
and to start the HTTP server
and then to signal the result back to CloudFormation.
So it usually doesn't take very long.
So as you can see now, I just refreshed and it's done.
And if you look into the events, as you can see,
the sample WaitCondition received the success signal
from our EC2 instance
and therefore our CloudFormation stack was complete.
And so therefore it's without any surprise
that if I open this public IPv4 address,
I see my hello world from my EC2 instance
because we know that for sure it was successful
because my CloudFormation stack received
a positive success signal from my EC2 instance
using this cfn-signal script.
So that's it.
This is the demo I want to show you.
Now go ahead and please delete the stack.
As usual, we clean up.
Alright, that's it.
I will see you in the next lecture.